								---LINUX---



1) primary Objective

	a) Convenience(Windows and Macos)
	b) Throughput(Linux)
		~uses for executing number of tasks per unit time
		~Linux is faster than windows(Opening More than 1 tabs in browser)

2) Major Functionalities

	a) Resource Management

	~Resource management works when multiple users connected from a single machine like server.
	~Especially it use where parallel users connected from a machine.

	b) Process Management

	~If we have multiple applications/process running at a time like media player, browser, gaming app,
	OS manages it using CPU SCHEDULING

	c) Storage Management(Hard drive)
	
	~Store data in drive using file system.

	d) Memory Management(RAM)

	~All process first come in  RAM before execution.
	~RAM allocate memory and send it to CPU.
	~CPU executes the program/application

	e)Security Management
	
	~Operating System refers to specified steps or measures used to protect the OS from threats, viruses, 
	worms, malware or remote hacker intrusions.
	~Check the authentication.

3) why linux is better than WINDOWS for SERVERS?

	1)Free and Open Source 
 	
	~Linux is free and open source; we can see the source code used to create Linux(kernal).
	
	2)Stability and Reliability
	
	~Linux is Unix-based and Unix was origionally designed to provide an environment that's powerful, stable and reliable yet easy to use.
	Linux systems are widely known for their stability and reliability , many Linux servers on the internet have been running for years 
	without failure or even being restarted.

	3)Security 

	~Linux is without doubt the most secure kernal out there, making linux based operating systems secure and suitable for servers.
	
	4) Flexibility

	~Linux is so powerful and flexible. You can tune it to meet you server needs: it allows you to do whatever you want (if possible).
	You can install a GUI or simply operate your server via a terminal only.
	~ we  can make our own OS using linux kernal according to our requirements.
	
	5) Cost and maintenance
	~ Finally, the total cost of owning and maintaining a LINUX server is lower compared to windows server, in terms of licensing fess,
	software/hardware purchase and maintenance costs, system support services and administrative costs.







